everybody welcome to another episode of
impact books today we are reviewing none
other than Angela Duckworth book grit
this is published by Simon & Schuster
and it totally blew me away so mad shout
out to you guys assignment of Shuster
this one is brilliant it really really
covers some powerful concepts about what
it is that actually separates people
that end up being successful from people
that had all the talents in the world we
didn't really go on to do anything with
it
alright the first thing we have to cover
is what is grit grit has two parts
passion and perseverance it's the
ability to find the thing that will
sustain your interest even when it gets
hard and boring to paraphrase Duckworth
it's about both falling in love and
staying in love over the long run and
that's a really important concept that
she goes into great detail about alright
this book has countless powerful
takeaways that I think for anyone who
opens themselves up to being changed
will really have a tremendous impact on
you but I've broken it down into the
three most important
all right takeaway number one rid is
about stamina you have to view your life
is a marathon and not a sprint you guys
have heard me talk about that before and
she breaks it down in the book very
powerfully as to why that's the case the
difference between a willingness to work
hard and grit they're not the same and
that was one of those things that kind
of caught me off guard because to be
honest as somebody who prides himself on
working hard I really did see them as
one in the same and she teases them
apart and shows how they're two distinct
albeit very important concepts and one
of the things that she knows is there's
many people who start things even work
hard at them but they find themselves
running out of enthusiasm once the
initial excitement wears off and they
move on to something else and she says
if you do that occasionally fair enough
but if you do it time and time again
that's actually a sign that you don't
have much grit the important thing is
your willingness to stick with something
for the long run long after it stopped
being fun and that is where gritty
people shine all right key takeaway
number two talent counts but effort
counts twice and I can practically hear
you guys leaving comments for me right
now saying yeah but what about
there's some people that are just born
with something special and that's true
and there's no question that talent
means something it is going to play into
all of this but at the end of the day
effort counts more especially here in
America people say that they believe
that hard work is more tied to success
than natural talent but in studies
people actually revealed themselves to
having a bias towards people who are
naturally talented this was crazy but a
really ingenious study and what they did
was they had somebody the same person
play a piece of music and they would
tell the people listening to that music
one of two stories Story one this is
somebody who's naturally talented listen
to the music tell us what you think
story - this is somebody who's really
had to work very hard to be as
accomplished as they are listen to the
music now it's the same person playing
the exact same piece of music the same
recording and yet people said that the
person who was naturally talented these
are the people that said that hard work
is more tied to success than natural
talent but yet when they were told that
the person was naturally talented they
rated that performance higher it's
absolutely nuts but nonetheless we
really do as a society at least have a
natural bias towards people who are
naturally talented but the important
question is and it's something that she
addresses in the book why she gives a
really compelling answer which is when
you make somebody extraordinary when you
think of them as being naturally
talented you don't have to compare
yourself to them and not having to
compete with somebody who's
extraordinary let's all think about
Michael Jordan for a second not having
to measure myself against Michael Jordan
if I'm on the basketball court is a
pretty damn good thing but in making
other people extraordinary just to let
yourself off the hook you miss your
opportunity to flex your grit and
actually get better and persevere over
the long run if instead you looked at
people even people that are absolutely
astonishing in what they've accomplished
if you say that over time with enough
effort that I can match the results then
you could do something extraordinary
with your life
alright takeaway number three grit can
be developed this one stopped me in my
tracks and is something that I want all
of you to take note of because it drives
me
nuts that people managed to convince
themselves and I'll even put myself in
this camp sometimes but we managed to
convince ourselves that certain traits
are fixed and can't be improved and in
the book Duckworth goes into more
examples of things like that where
people are just absolutely convinced
that it's a trait that just can't be
developed and one of those honestly that
when she said it I realized in the back
of my mind I believed that it was a
fixed rate is Grint itself and that's
the awesome part about the book you're
not going to read it and go will I
either M gritty or I'm not you're going
to read it and go either M gritty now or
I'm not yet and that subtle distinction
makes all the difference and she really
goes into how you can develop your grit
and what a way to on the other side if
you do it I'm telling you guys this one
is worth the price of admission alone if
that was the only thing that you got out
of the book it would still be incredibly
incredibly powerful my favorite part
about reading books is the quotes and
this book oh my god it had so many
amazing quotes that it is brutally
difficult to pick just three but here
are my three one consistency of effort
over the long run is everything now the
reason that this one I think is so
critical for everybody to understand
none of us are very impressive right now
today right at least I hope I don't
think of myself like that I encourage
you guys not to worry about what you
think of yourself right now today people
write to me all the time because they're
not impressed with their skill set but
guess what neither am i I'm not
impressed with what I've done up to this
point I'm just thinking about where I'm
trying to go and the gap in skill sets
between who I am today and the person I
need to become in order to execute on
that all right number two and I want
everyone to stop what you're doing right
now and pay attention to this one there
are no shortcuts to excellence now why
do I think that's so important because I
think people spend a lot of wasted time
looking for a shortcut that doesn't
exist they're looking for a hack or a
trick that's going to allow them to
accelerate and I get it I get why you
want to do that I want to do it
but the fact is it doesn't work
excellence is about actually getting
good at something is about becoming
excellent it's about doing things that
other people can't do it's about trends
what people think is possible it's not
about campaigning it's not about talking
it's about learning it's about growing
it's about pushing your skillset and
there's no shortcut to that maybe you
can do it faster but it doesn't make it
any shorter all right number three
enthusiasm is common endurance is rare
this is where you guys should be
focusing your energy it's easy to get
excited about something don't be too
impressed with yourself for being
excited about something some grand
challenge that you're going to go after
pride yourself on whether you stick with
it over the long run because things are
going to get hard it's going to be
difficult and if you can stay focused on
what you're trying to accomplish and
deal with the mundane the banal the
painful stuff then you'll be able to
really do something incredible alright
like I said this book is chock full of
amazing quotes and ideas so be sure to
go to impact Theory comm for more quotes
these are quotes to live by alright I'm
going to leave you guys with one last
quote grit isn't just working incredibly
hard that's only one part of it what's
the other part you're gonna have to read
the book to find out for yourself
alright guys I hope you enjoyed this
review be sure to like it share it and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
you